welcome to the lab folks I'm Stu today
we're going to break down open ai's deep
research I've got a practical
demonstration lined up that will show
you just how versatile and Powerful this
tool is beyond research but before we
dive into that here's why it is so
different from its competitors and a lot
of people have asked me well how does it
compare to Gemini's um deep search or
perplexity Pros reasoning search and let
me tell you this model hits different it
has a level of intelligence I have never
interacted with
before and it provides me reports that
are extremely strategic and valuable and
come out anywhere between 8 and 20,000
words 8,000 and 20,000
words the reason it is so much better
than the competitors is the model behind
it the 03 is an unreleased version the
only way you can access it is through
the $200 a month Pro Plan using deep
research and this model is phenomenal
and there's a clue here on a tangent
that open AI are not going to be really
focusing on releasing just raw models
anymore they're going to attach it to
use cases which means chat GPT could
become a very powerful tool I've said
for a long time that that's the product
they're going to to try and dominate the
AI world with and it seems that that is
still happening anyway I digress let's
come back to deep research and let's go
dive in and see just how powerful this
03 model is and why I think at least for
me it is well worth the $200 a month and
I can't even believe I'm saying that
$200 a month look there's probably
Alternatives that are cheaper but I like
accessing the latest in intelligence so
let's go do a
demonstration I'm going to record all
this in a document and I'm going to link
that down below in the description or
comments so you can access this document
for free and we're going to start a
little differently now you can go to
deep research here so I'm queued up you
just click so we're in chat GPT now this
is I've got it set to 03 mini it doesn't
matter which one because once you hit
deep research it activates the hidden 03
model
and what most people are doing is just
saying research this topic for me and
giving it a bit of a brief but that
doesn't get the really good stuff out
you want to give it a very structured
what I call a research brief so here's
what I
do I start in a different model not chat
GPT or any open AI models I like to have
a different sort of model do this so I'm
in AI Studio I'm using Gemini 2.0
experimental 205 that's just the date
they released it 5th of
February cool model and here's my prompt
which I have recorded over
here you'll see uh here's my initial
prompt for creating the research brief
so step one is to create a research
brief please create a research brief for
my research assistant that instructs
them to analyze consumer sentiment
emerging pain points Rising demand
patterns across forums reviews and
Industry reports we are looking for
untapped Market gaps cool stuff we can
do here first mover opportunities for
non technical entrepreneurs and small
medium business owners that's my tribe
looking at upcoming shifts in the market
and how to position now so already very
valuable and the niche we're going to
look at
today high ticket business coaching and
Consulting because there is so much non
out in the interweb about this topic all
these courses that claim to show you how
to sell High ticket so we're going to
break it down look at the market with a
fine tooth comb and we're going to make
uh some discoveries and learnings that
could potentially help us transform this
industry so the Deep research Focus I
want emerging coaching Consulting Trends
what types of business coaching are
rising in demand
High ticket offer analysis what price
points and service structures convert
best competitive positioning breakdown
what unique angles do successful coaches
use and where is the market Gap and what
are clients complaining about an
existing coaching programs and we want
to know how it creates a competitive
Advantage we want to refine positioning
and pricing to avoid undercharging or
underserving we want to Target the most
lucrative emerging coaching Market
markets before they get crowded emerging
cool cool very cool and we want to
differentiate by solving pain points
that other coaches ignore or Overlook
and then I just add please do not
provide timeline requirements otherwise
it'll say please spend four to six
months on this and split your time like
this we don't need any of that so this
gives us our prompt that we're going to
run
into deep
research so here is our research brief
I'm just going to copy it and paste it
in to identify untap Market gaps first
mover opportunities and emerging Trends
within the high teet business business
coaching and Consulting Niche enabling
non-technical entrepreneurs and SMB
owners to strategically position
themselves for success that's well
beyond research isn't it this is
research plus what we want to do with
the research all bundled into one output
incredible stuff this is how you get the
best gold layer from these new tools so
we've got all of this you can read it
it's in the document I'm just going to
copy the whole thing and we're going to
come back to chat GPT so you want to
activate deep research and we're just
going to paste in let me zoom in a
fraction paste in our
prompt remove the verbiage at the top
and we'll come down the bottom and we'll
remove any verbiage
there good luck no that's fine no we can
get rid of this last sentence so now we
have a prompt which is quite decent very
structured very
intentional and when we run that deep
research is going to ask a series of
questions now if you have a really well
structured brief it'll still ask
questions which can be annoying so let's
go have a look at the questions it's
asking
today uh Geographic Focus um let's just
say Global uh but
prioritize US market so that's one uh
opportunities for solo Consultants
Boutique firms or larger um uh solo
Boutique Etc okay uh competitive
criteria do you prefer coaches
Consultants analyzed based on Revenue
industry impact or other metric well I
want to make money Revenue
first uh but touch on the others because
I think they're quite important uh
especially impact because many coaches
out there are Purpose Driven are very CA
driven and money isn't necessarily their
main
focus but if you're going to spay $200 a
month for this you want to leverage
opportunities that can actually make you
money would you like the structure
Report with sections tables and visuals
uh make it a
narrative uh but well structured and
easy to read please and time frame
that's a good question and something I
didn't put in that's why these questions
can be quite valuable should the
analysis focus on the next one to three
years or longer so uh Focus
primarily on the next one to three years
because after that things get a bit hey
right but touch on the longer term uh
Trend Trends as
well especially uh if they have the
potential to disrupt and or dominate the
market right so now we've asked the
questions and we're just going to go and
run that and it takes anywhere from 5 to
15 minutes I had one take two hours
and sometimes it doesn't trigger so here
it is got it I'll conduct in-depth
research on the high tiet business
coaching and Consulting
market and it's just repeating back what
I said I'll let you know once the
report's ready for view review and it
starts a
research and you'll see this move along
and when it's finished you'll get your
report sometimes over here you can also
see its thinking process but open AI
don't give you the same level of access
to their reasoning they still protect
that very carefully and they just
summarize it whereas with models like R1
you get to see the reasoning raw which
is fascinating again that's a topic for
another day so what I'm going to do I'm
going to pause this video and I will
come back when it has finished and we'll
continue and look at what it has given
us which will be quite incredible
hopefully fingers crossed see you in a
moment and we're back it took 10 minutes
bang on so let's go take a look at what
we got I'll show you uh how I review
this and we'll see if it gave us
anything
valuable so here it is research
completed in 10 minutes it has 27
sources emerging Trends and high ticket
business coaching and Consulting now
imagine how valuable this report would
be to people in this space so what we'll
do I'm just I'm not going to read it
here I'm just going to come all the way
down hit the copy button we're going to
cop cop it over
here so this I'm going to give to
you I'll fix up the
formatting so let's go put that in here
uh
output and we'll just paste it in
hopefully it will paste with the right
formatting their
um sources often screw up the text they
they've had a few formatting bugs so
we'll get rid of the verbiage we don't
need all of this and here we have
emerging Trends in high tech at business
coaching and Consulting showing how it's
evolving rapidly and several emerging
Trends are shaping in this are shaping
this industry especially in the US with
Echo globally I love the way this model
rides this is really interesting because
already telling us that it's found some
pretty big insights into the high tiet
coaching
market so hyers
specialization with millions of people
now calling themselves coaches well
there's not read the whole thing I'll
let you read it I'm just going to tell
you we're just going to do a quick word
count see just how
uh common pain points wow this this is
my goodness a very big report in
conclusion Market Outlook wow still
going longer
term Fantastic look how long this is my
goodness and we'll go down to the
resources and we'll see okay let's do a
word count
16,700
words that is almost a book that is a
very detailed report now what you can do
is this we're going to come over here
I'm not going to read it I'm going to
show you something that I do to
accelerate this because I would read
that if I was in this industry and uh if
you are have a read but what I'm going
to do is we're going to come here we're
going
to uh connect that report that we've
made I love how easy and intuitive it is
to work so here is our
report please see attached the report
generated uh by the research
assistant
please
provide a succinct which means it won't
be ver aose it'll be short summary of
the key
learnings um we'll just start with that
and then we can now work with this and
interrogate the AI and ask questions
well what about this what about that and
it will be able to look at that research
and give you answers so you don't just
have to read it you can give it to an AI
and have it broken down so hypn is king
and queen the era of generalized
generalist business coach is over so
there's a very interesting ing Insight
if you're a high ticket coach don't try
and be all things to all people kind of
obvious in a way AI is a tool not a
replacement hybrid is the gold standard
Roi is non-negotiable high ticket
clients demand measurable outcomes
measurable outcomes and a clear return
on investment coaches must establish
kpis track progress and demonstrate
tangible
results and so on so look uh what do we
got key learning so uh hybrid is the
gold standard so blending online
convenience virtual sessions online
Resources with periodic in-person
experiences Retreats workshops delivers
Maximum Impact Global reach is now
expected uh done with you is highly
valuable Community is key so a lot of
this may seem common sense but you don't
see a lot of common sense in the high
ticket coaching industry okay so that
was interesting so so that just gave us
those so now we'll say uh where are the
biggest
opportunities because that will be
covered in this report as
well so here's a breakdown of where the
largest opportunities reside under
served niches with high growth
potential this is arguably the single
biggest opportunity while large
corporations have access to AI
Consultants small medium businesses are
largely left to figure it out themselves
a coach rather than a consultant who can
specifically guide non-technical owners
through the Practical steps of
integrating AI tools for things like
marketing automation customer service
and data analysis is position for
massive demand so it's linking a service
to that coaching not just telling them
what to do but actually helping guide
them into where they can
see uh
opportunity and so on here's a very
interesting one and I I have talked to
somebody else about this because this is
a huge underserved market right now
coaching for neurod Divergent
professionals and they are everywhere
there's so much neurod divergency all
the best people in my life are are
neurod
Divergent uh addressing emerging needs
driven by market shifts so this as uh if
you're looking at high ticket coaching
you could then
say um here's my high tiet
offer please analyze it against this
report so let let's talk about how we
might do that so you could you could go
now to the AI that you've given it the
report and you could say here is my high
ticket offer and just paste your high
ticket offer and then you might ask
could you please look for issues in my
offer uh how to harness it to the
emerging Trends identified in the
report and what I should do to adjust
just my offer to take advantage of all
this AI can give us a strategic
advantage and what I'm trying to show
you here is how to use it strategically
so we're not just using deep research to
learn about our market and to research
and understand it we also had it
leverage that understanding into how it
is going to impact the market and what
we could actually do where the specific
opportunities are so that report The
Prompt and the initial stter to get the
research brief it's all in one document
it's all available to you for free and
I'm dropping it down
below hope you found this little Deep
dive into research uh Deep dive into
deep research interesting and I'll be
back soon with some more fun ways to use
AI strategically to move ourselves
forward and to gain that strategic Edge
look around corners and gaze into the
future gosh I love AI now definely the
time to get serious about this stuff see
you in the next one stay
curious this has been so great and all
the lights are dimmed will shine again
my
friend everybody needs a break who will
return and trust me memories that we
make will keep us for full
ofly so take this time to rest we'll me
back soon underneath the stars or maybe
beneath the moon keep that smile on your
face we'll be back to this cherish all
the
most let the music hold on to this
feeling we'll be back one day
[Music]